### Directory content

This directory contains the scripts that is used to calculate the TPMs from the Liver Lobules smFISH counts. First we used the script preprocess_Liver_lobules_count_table_split_gene_names.py in order to separate all the gene name alliases from the same measured gene expression. Specifically, The liver lobules count file contains multiple aliases for each measured gene, we separeted them and recorded where they came from originally. Then we extracted the alliases of the gene symbols that were found in this dataset. From the alliases and the original gene names we selected those names that were found in the ligand-receptor database that we used for CSOmap. The counts of the selected gene names will be normalized according to the TPM calculation of the package Scater. This script requires the following information. You require the original count table to which an additional column has to be added in which the original gene names are captilized (e.g dna->DNA). Additionally a file containing the Ligand Receptor interaction database also is required. We used the file supplied by Ren et al 2020. (https://github.com/zhongguojie1998/CSOmap/blob/master/CSOmap.matlab/data/demo/LR_pairs.mouse.txt) The file that contains the previously separated mouse liver lobules count data with added column of capitilized letters can be found on the google drive under the name raw_expression_counts_liver_lobules_genes_splitted_with_counted_number_of_subgenes.txt. The resulting files can also be found on the google drive. The orignal file (original_liver_lobules_files.txt) used to calculate the distances in novoSpaRc. Furthermore, we included the original file with that only contained the counts of the ligand and receptor genes. Also, the file with the selected gene names for the affinity and reconstruction calculation (full_liver_lobules_table.txt) was included.

